'\"macro stdmacro
.TH ATTCP 1 local
.SH NAME
attcp \- Another Test TCP and UDP performance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B attcp \-t
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-p\0 \fIport\fP ]
.RB [ \-l\0 \fIbuffersize\fP ]
.RB [ \-s\0 \fIsocketsize\fP ]
.RB [ \-n\0 \fInumIOs\fP ]
.RB [ \-f\0 \fIformat\fP ]
.RB [ \-i\0 \fIseconds\fP ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-q]
.RB [ \-v]
.RB host
.RB [ < in ]
.br
.B attcp \-r
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-p\0 \fIport\fP ]
.RB [ \-l\0 \fIbuffersize\fP ]
.RB [ \-s\0 \fIsocketsize\fP ]
.RB [ \-f\0 \fIformat\fP ]
.RB [ \-i\0 \fIseconds\fP ]
.RB [ \-T ]
.RB [ \-c ]
.RB [ \-q]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ > out ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Attcp
times the transmission and reception of data between two systems using 
the UDP or TCP protocols.
Attcp differs from the original 
.I ttcp
by the addition and deletion of several features. 
.PP
Traditionally testing testing has been performed by starting a receiver
\f3\-r\f1  and then starting the the transmitter \f3\-t\f1.
These tests would use a default port (ttcp, written in early 1980's used port
5500).
.PP
.I Attcp has an script installed in \f3/opt/sbin/attcp_inetd.ksh\f1 that
installs three attcp service names in \f3/etc/services\f1 and also adds
entries in \f3/etc/inetd.conf\f1a so that the "other" side can be started
by inetd support, rather than requiring a seperate session to always start
the receiver first. 
.B Note:
The port numbers used are above
.B IPPORT_USERRESERVED
and below
.B TCP_EPHEMERAL_LOW_DFLT
and
.B UDP_EPHEMERAL_LOW_DFLT.
The change was made because port 5500 is now reserved for
.br
fcp-addr-srvr1  5500/tcp                # fcp-addr-srvr1
.br
fcp-addr-srvr1  5500/udp                # fcp-addr-srvr1
.PP
.I The current definition is 55000, 55001 and 55002 - but I expect to change these as they are
.B above
TCP_EPHEMERAL_LOW_DFLT and UDP_EPHEMERAL_LOW_DFLT
.SH USAGE
.PP
Tests lasting at least tens of seconds should be used to obtain accurate
measurements.
.PP
The original
.I ttcp
and later
.I nttcp
could also be used as a ``network pipe'' for moving directory hierarchies
This function has been removed for security reasons, i.e. to help
avoid unauthenticated transfers. Instead
.I attcp
communicates with one of two services that can be installed on remote
systems to read or send data streams to/from ports 55001 and 55002.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\-x
Transmit mode.
Source a data pattern to network;
.TP 10
\-r
Receive mode.
Sink (discard) the data.
.TP 10
\-u
Use UDP instead of TCP.
.TP 10
\-l \fIlength\fP
Length of buffers in bytes (default 8192).
For UDP, this value is the number of data bytes in each packet.
The system limits the maximum UDP packet length. This limit can be 
changed with the \f3\-s\f1 option.
.TP 10
\-s \fIsize\fP
Set size of socket buffer.  The default varies from system to system.
This parameter affects the maximum UDP packet length.
.TP 10
\-n \fIcountIOs\fP
Number of (source) buffers transmitted (default 20480).
.TP 10
\-p \fIport\fP
Port number to send to or listen on (default 55000).
.TP 10
\-d
If transmitting using TCP, do not buffer data when sending
(sets the TCP_NODELAY socket option).
.TP 10
\-B
When receiving data, perform reads only as "full blocks", 
using the block size specified by \f3\-l\f1.
This option is useful to measure effect of no_delay and/or largesend
on the number of packets sent, aka fragementatioin of TCP streams and/or
UDP packet size mismatches.
.TP 10
\-A \fIalign\fP
OBSOLETED - No real transfers!
Using the option will cause a syntax error.
.TP 10
\-O \fIoffset\fP
OBSOLETED - No real transfers!
Using the option will cause a syntax error.
.TP 10
\-f \fIformat\fP
Specify, using one of the following characters, 
the format of the throughput rates as 
bits/sec ('b'), bytes/sec ('B'), 
kilobits/sec ('k'), kilobytes/sec ('K'), 
megabits/sec ('m'), megabytes/sec ('M'), 
gigabits/sec ('g'), or gigabytes/sec ('G').
raw bits/sec ('r'), or raw bytes/sec ('R').
The default is 'M'. "raw" means that only the numeric
value is printed, without a unit of measure.
.TP 10
\-c
``Collect call'' aka Connect. Originally this was used in conjunction
with the and \f3\-r\f1 options. Initiate the connection, then read data from the remote host. Basically, now it means
.I attcp
connects to the inetd daemon at the target and reads from the program
.I ttcpsend.

.TP 10
\-i \fIseconds\fP
Test for the specified number of seconds.
Used in conjunction with the \f3\-r\f1 options.
Rather than reading or writing a specified number of buffers (default),
read or write for a specified number of seconds. 
Useful when the network speed is not known in advance,
or may vary significantly.
.TP 10
\-T
``Touch'' the data as they are read in order to measure cache effects.
.TP 10
\-q
Quiet: print only the measured network speed.
.TP 10
\-v
Verbose: print more statistics.
.TP 10
\-D
Debug: set the SO_DEBUG socket option.
.SH SEE ALSO
ping(8), traceroute(8), ttcpread(1), ttcpsend(1), speedfrom(1), speedto(1)
